Terraform state file is how Terraform is able to keep
track of the elements of your infrastructure that it is responsible for.
The state file allows Terraform to find the resources it has
previously created or updated and proceed to carry out the current instruction.
This is because when you run Terraform,
it saves the information about what happened in a file called terraform.tfstate.
Terraform.tfstate is a JSON file that maps
the instructions in your configuration files to the actual resource in the real world.
It maintains all the metadata about the resource so it can keep track of its status.
This is the power of the state file,
it's a blueprint of your infrastructure.
Along with the power of the state file, come potential drawbacks.
How can it be stored so all team members have access to it?
Keep in mind that your terraform.tfstate
file is sitting on your local hard drive right now.
Also, what happens if two people are working in
Terraform at the same time and making updates to the state file?
There is potential for data loss and even state file corruption.
One way to resolve this is to use GitHub to store your state files.
Now, all team members have access, its version,
but there's still potential for concurrent updates and you have to be
very careful about pushing the latest updates to GitHub when changes are made,
and checking for and pulling down the latest changes.
Another thing to consider is that the terraform.tfstate file may contain secrets.
Keep in mind that the file is in JSON format, that's human readable.
Any usernames and passwords,
say for example for a database,
will be right there in plain text.
Also, do you really want the blueprint to your infrastructure out there on GitHub?
Probably not, so GitHub may not be the best idea.
Instead of using version control for your terraform.tfstate file,
the Terraform best practice here is to use a remote backend to store the file.
Right now, your Terraform state file is stored on your local hard drive,
and that's a local backend.
A remote backend is remote shared storage.
Some examples of remote backends are S3,
Google Cloud Storage, Terraform Pro, and Azure storage.
Most of these options support locking the state file when it's in use by another user.
They also support encryption in transit and at
rest so your secrets in the state file are safe.